Hey there! So this is the third part of our
video. And, currently, we are iterating
over the county URLs that follow this
domain name. After that, we go to the
Received Applications listings only. And
here on this third part of this section,
we will pretty much automate filling out
the form, which will limit our time,
for example, for 42 Days, and
only use Applications Received,
and sort of click Search, right? We will
get returned results, as you will see.
So it's going to be similar to this one. So to pretty
much do this, we have to use form requests.
So let's first import it. So go back to
the text editor and put here the comma,
and then FormRequest. We can copy this
line, and then go back to the Terminal
and paste it into the Scrapy Shell. Hit
Enter, and that's it. So the first thing
that we need to do is, of course,
as always, inspect the elements.
So this is called a form. This page has two forms,
as you will see in a moment. So if we go to Inspect,
and then ctrl + F, and then
type in form here, and, let's see,
there are 20 instances. But as you can see,
this is the first form that I was talking about,
and it is for the Search Results.
And then the second one,
as you will see in a moment. So
these are all classes or comments,
and this is the second one. So if we zoom out this,
you will see that as I'm highlighting right now,
this is the form that we are
looking to get. So as you can see,
it contains method as a post, so if we then
load more data here, you will get the input,
the IDs, the headers, field sets, etc. So
a lot of data. So if we go back to the Terminal,
and first thing that we need to
do is . . . let's actually do this in the
text editor because it's probably going to
be easier. So after we are in this type of page.
So this type of page will be the
response in the parse_form.
So we just need to yield the form request,
so yield FormRequest.from_response.
So this from_response will pretty
much read from this response,
meaning this type of page. The reason why is
because we want to get to the response so we can
have the HTML and values, such as this
one, for example. And any other, really,
such as Time Limit and different, really,
buttons. Go back to the text editor, and
then the first parameter, because
we use the from_response,
is going to be response, of course. And then,
comma, and then the second one is going to be called
formdata={} and then in the
curly brackets we will here,
pretty much, get our data in the dictionary keys
and values. Now let me show you how this
actually works on the site end. So most
of the time, and when there's some kind
of JavaScript generated pages,
you can just go to the Network tab,
then here to the . . . this tab, specifically,
or let's just go to the All because
sometimes there will be, in different
tabs, data. So then let's say the Time Limit,
we set it to 42 Days, and only
Applications Received. So we are going to
leave this open, and then we will click
Search here. And then only after a
second or two, after the loading of the page
is started, then you can click here to the
Record or Stop Recording network log.
This is done, pretty much,
to isolate all of the . . . or really
to isolate the first requests.
So the first request here is
going to be the right one.
We don't care, really, about the . . . any, like,
images or something like that, as you can
see from the response, and any other,
really, data such as JavaScript, CSS,
Images, Media, Fonts, Documents,
as you can see, WebSockets, etc.
So we just want to use this one. So,
once again, this is pretty straightforward.
And, really, it's always done when it comes to
scraping this type of pages. And, also, the way that
you know that this is JavaScript
generated is from the URL,
as you will see in a moment. So go to the
Network tab, then click Search after you're ready,
and set up all of your arguments. And then
just click here, Stop. As you can see,
we got here the Search Results. And if we
go to the second page, you will see that
we get the append /2. So iterating, really,
over the pages will be pretty straightforward.
Okay, so let's first then
go to the URL that we need,
which is going to be this one.
So here we've got the Headers, Preview,
Response, Cookies, Timing. So five
different tabs. What we're interesting . . . or
interested in . . . is only Headers and only the
Response. And now for the Headers,
here we've got the Request Method POST. So that's
how I know that we need to use form request, okay?
So if it . . . Request Methods,
by the way, are either GET or POST.
In this case, because it's POST it's going
to have the form request. If it was GET,
then we could get it with the, just, yield
Request Method. We get our Status Code
and a bunch of other, really, data points.
So this is the, really, the URL that is going
to be pretty much the same as here on
this function, so it's going to be totally fine.
And, let's see, and then we don't care,
really, for the Response Headers.
As you can see here, the
page is loaded with the ASP.NET.
Request Headers, we really don't, also, care
about this. What we care about is the Form Data.
So as you can see here, well,
most of the time, there will be some
kind of token or as you can see a
RequestVerificationToken, in this case.
And this is the value. Now, pretty much,
these data points, you can copy this
and paste this into the text editor and define
them as the keys and values in the formdata.
But we don't actually need to do all of that.
So the default values that are going
to be the 7 Days Applications Received,
and then this also checked out button. And so
with this, you don't actually have to define, pretty much,
really, anything when it comes to
having a form request. But if you wanted
to, for example, change the
Time Limit from 7 Days to,
for example, 28 Days, then you would
have to enter the key and value to the formdata.
Now let me show you how this is
actually done. So as we see here,
we get the Time Limit to 42. So this corresponds
to the, pretty much, selecting this, right?
Let me show you if I select here
35 Days. So we go to Inspect,
go to the Network tab, and then click
Search. Stop it and go to the Search Results.
Sorry. Do this. And as you can see here,
the Time Limit is 35. The rest here we got 42.
So you get the point. Also,
this check box list, and then they
use list slicing to have zero, then ID,
as you can see. So this all can be changed.
So this also can be changed to False, and
then also this can also be changed to True.
App status probably can be to 1 to 2, etc.
So the only thing, really, that we would
need to change, in this case, is if we
want to change it to . . . from the default
7 Days to 42 Days is going to be this.
So if we copy this, and then go back
to the text editor, and set it as a key,
and then as a value. We can set 42, right?
So define this as a string, and that will be it
for the formdata. You can also copy and paste this,
but probably verification token
will be changed. And because we
read from the response, we are going to get
generated our token without any issues.
So then the second thing that we
need to do is put a comma here,
since we are done with the formdata.
Then we can set dont_filter to True.
And now what this will be done . . . or doing . . .
is not filtering out the same URL. Because, again,
this is done with the ASP.NET. Most of
the time this type of pages don't change
their URL, as you can see so here. Let's
see. So since we are going to be in this
page, we are going to go to the very next function,
which will also have or read from the response.
And, of course, response will
have exactly the same HTML,
and also that includes the URLs. So Scrapy by
default will filter out duplicate requests.
So sometimes this is a good
thing. Well, in most cases,
this is a good thing, but sometimes it's not. So
you can set the dont_filter to equal to True, really.
You can do the same thing, really.
So if we copy this and paste it,
you can do it also here in this function. You
can do it in any Request method, but since we
are not going to process,
really, in this type of case,
duplicate URLs, and really we don't need
them. We are good to go, really,
and we don't need to define this. So
dont_filter is set to True, and then we define the
formxpath is equal to the single quotes and then
parentheses, and then we can type in find every form,
and then we will use our second form.
Then put comma, and then
finally define callback to self parse,
for example, pages. So let's define it.
(self, response) And, for now, let's
pass it. Let's first figure out if this
is going to be working. I've done this in
sublime text because it's easier to see it
than doing this in the Terminal. But
if this is working, then we will do this
in the Terminal, which is the preferred way,
really, to test out the form requests.
And this type of pages or figuring out all
of the, like, form data that is requested
or required, really, is time-consuming, especially
on your first time. So I know your pain, really.
So let's save it, go back to the
Terminal, and run the script.
Let's see, hopefully, this will work. And
because we set the dont_filter to True,
it will not filter out duplicate requests,
which seems like it's actually doing right now.
So, I believe . . . okay, so here. As you can see,
most of the time we get the GET, but here
we get the POST. So this is our post request
from the FormRequest here. And
because it's 200, it seems like
everything is working fine. Now this
will not be true in most cases.
Because even though sometimes they
will display post request and 200,
then you will not get loaded the right data.
Now I know that this is really confusing,
but when it comes to
scraping JavaScript pages,
it gets kind of confusing. So the same thing
really happens when you try to log in.
There are kind of redirects and stuff like that,
which sometimes Scrapy doesn't offer,
and so this is really or can be really time-consuming.
Now since everything is . . . seems like
everything is working fine, let's go back to the shell.
And then we imported the
FormRequest, which is fine.
And then let's go back to the sublime text, and
name this, for example, form. So form is equal to this.
We can copy this or cut it.
Let's . . . this will actually not work.
So dont_filter True is not needed. And also callback
is not needed because we are using this in the shell.
Okay, so finally we can cut it
and paste the same to the Terminal.
So we can call in the magic function
%paste. Hit Enter, and no form element found
with the . . . I'll see this with url. This is
probably not the URL, so let's try to
do it with fetch and first fetch the correct
URL. Let's go and also cut it once again.
Okay, so here we paste it, and let's see.
So it seems like form would work.
Okay. And then we can fetch our form.
So to do that, of course, just like with
loading pages, ordinary pages, you call in
fetch, and then the form. Okay. So . . . and then,
let's see, response.body. So it
seems like it crawled it with the 200
as a successful response. Okay.
So data is, as you can see, there.
Sometimes you will get response.body as
an empty list, really, of the Unicode.
So in that case, you messed something up,
unfortunately. We can also call in view(response).
Hit Enter. And then this will,
of course, in our preferred editor,
get or load the data, as you can see in
the TMP file. So everything is working fine,
and we got into the
Results file, which is great.
So, hopefully, this was not too hard.
In this course, we'll have in the later
sections a few more videos where we
cover form requests. And there are a ton of,
really, variations when it comes to form
requests. So I know that this can be hard,
and will be hard, and time-consuming.
But, unfortunately, when it comes to, again,
scraping JavaScript pages,
it's going to be a bit trickier
than scraping ordinary pages.
So that'll be it in this video,
and I'll see you in the very next one.